Gabriel Trintinalia: Yeah.
Gabriel Trintinalia: How are you?
Usman Saleem: Hi, Mabel Gabby, how are you doing it?
Gabriel Trintinalia: Yeah, that's that.
Sally MacFarlane: Hello.
Gabriel Trintinalia: hey?
Usman Saleem: Oh, I see.
Sally MacFarlane: Hi, Jason.
Gabriel Trintinalia: Jason.
sorry.
Just give people
couple more minutes to
Sally MacFarlane: going, but I think a few people much will be.
Sally MacFarlane: We may not get that many people today.
Okay.
Sally MacFarlane: Can you see my screen. Is it the right screen?
Yep.
Sally MacFarlane: Excellent.
We might get started with the
Sally MacFarlane: Say antitrust. Notice.
Sally MacFarlane: Everyone should be familiar with that.
Sally MacFarlane: He's being recorded.
Sally MacFarlane: So I mean, unless you're speaking, and
any general announcements
Sally MacFarlane: interrupt.
Sally MacFarlane: you can't wait.
Jason Frame: It happens.
Jason Frame: it happens, yes, we'll probably add the what at the each other for draws into the work. We'll talk to it later.
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah.
Any other general in that sense.
Sally MacFarlane: It
the roadmap.
Sally MacFarlane: I think we're all about Shanghai. Really.
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah. Good.
Diego López León: Hello, Hi, Sally!
Sally MacFarlane: We just started, so we just covered the housekeeping, and
Sally MacFarlane: we're gonna skip over the roadmap because really, I think we're pretty
Sally MacFarlane: Shanghai withdrawals, etc.
Sally MacFarlane: So release.
Sally MacFarlane: I think
Sally MacFarlane: the next releases plan for this week slash next week. So
Sally MacFarlane: I don't know Jason, if that was discussed
Sally MacFarlane: at the intra week at all, but
Sally MacFarlane: I think they were having to sort of wrap up some of that stuff and to release
Sally MacFarlane: in the next week to say
Jason Frame: I yeah. So I
Jason Frame: haven't any discussion when the release was gonna happen. But
Jason Frame: I guess from that. Yes, we've got the this is in full controls. But if you want to go and do that.
Jason Frame: And there's a further changes they want to get in for shape. I'm not sure if that's actually impacting on the on this or not.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay.
Sally MacFarlane: So do you want to give us a bit of an update on withdrawals and anything else from Shanghai?
Jason Frame: Yeah, sure. So last week, the the so which rules is that actually being most into my now. So we've got all that in there.
Jason Frame: and we were testing against the
Jason Frame: in the
Jason Frame: We Haven't found any major issues with thedrawal. So we did that some small fixes
Jason Frame: would like to around
Jason Frame: the the which is being fixed.
Jason Frame: We're currently passing all the
Jason Frame: all the tests with the provider, we've got a conflict issue on that it causes basically not to work with. The
Jason Frame: let's see
Sally MacFarlane: is that what I have test about running right now.
Jason Frame: Sorry the
Jason Frame: we need to make a change in basis to support.
Jason Frame: to to support them
Jason Frame: got it done.
Jason Frame: and that they are working with the reference the withdrawals reference has to working, and the but of all the executions that test the linking
Sally MacFarlane: is there a ticket for the company change that's required, or it's.
Jason Frame: Yes, I'm working on that. Let's give you a number. It is 5, 0, 2, 5.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay?
Sally MacFarlane: Oh, i'll make it.
Jason Frame: Yeah. And
Jason Frame: there's also. So we've participated. Manually run against the execution specs.
Jason Frame: and we have this another
Jason Frame: that ticket in progress to actually
Jason Frame: well, as part of our
Jason Frame: this way
Jason Frame: that, but we Won't want to go in. It's not a part of the whole process.
Sally MacFarlane: Cool.
Sally MacFarlane: busy. Do you want to use an update on John 17.
Usman Saleem: Sorry. So yeah, the the work is almost ready. There was an
Usman Saleem: hiccup with related to the Pkcs 11 integration
Usman Saleem: unit test cases that we have.
Usman Saleem: I think, starting from Java 15 or 16.
Usman Saleem: They like the sun. Pkcs 11 has introduced check, which fails
Usman Saleem: when when we are using an Ss. Based Pkcs 11 database.
Usman Saleem: and in our unit test cases and acceptance test cases we use an Ss. Databases, especially in only in test cases.
Usman Saleem: So in order to make Basu pass. I had to modify and recreate all those trust stores and key stores and those unit test cases to use E. C. Keys instead of the Rsa keys. The Rsa keys were failing.
Usman Saleem: and I all like, not in the unit test cases. But I tested the same failing logic
Usman Saleem: outside of basu with soft Tsm. It works. It only fails when it is dealing with the Mozilla and Ss.
Usman Saleem: So, unfortunately the the Pr. Has grown
Usman Saleem: in the number of files which are touched now.
Usman Saleem: They are like, you know, about 100 or something file, but the relevant changes are like quite low.
Usman Saleem: But the good thing is that the all of the test cases are now passing.
Usman Saleem: The
Usman Saleem: I will add a sort of like a known issue. Some, you know.
Usman Saleem: in the change log that's on my side to note down that the Pkcs 11,
Usman Saleem: integrating with an Ss. Will not work for the Rsa. Keys unless and until either and Ss. Fixes it, or
Usman Saleem: sun, or like the oracle open Gd. Case fixed for that part I will create. I will submit a bug with the with the open. Gdk: Just so that, like, you know, we take all the boxes that we want.
Sally MacFarlane: Is that going to impact us at all? We said it was just test case.
Usman Saleem: the test cases are failing because
Usman Saleem: the test case is use the N. Ss. Module for the Pcs. 11 integration. Since an Ss. Comes
Usman Saleem: free on like Linux environments and easy to set up on Mac as well.
Usman Saleem: Soft touches, and is another open source available software based at Ssm. Pkcs 11. Hsm. Provider rest of them like when we go with the actual hardware base like lunar, just you know something. They are quite expensive.
Usman Saleem: So our unit test case is an acceptance test uses and Ssdb. By default, and that's where it is failing. So it used to pass in Java, 1112, and 13, I think, starting from Ddk. 15,
Usman Saleem: that particular setup started failing. So any user who wants to use the Dev. P. 2 P. Tls.
Usman Saleem: With because Cs 11
Usman Saleem: source
Usman Saleem: and N. Ss. Dv. Cannot use Rsa keys anymore. They have to use Ec. Keys to configure the mutual authentication. Same goes with the Q. B. It set up as well
Usman Saleem: any
Usman Saleem: customer or client who want to use Qv. Ft. And want to use the Pki setup that they supervise, and they want to use Pkcs 11 based database.
Usman Saleem: If they use an Ss. Space bagged ats, it will fail. It won't fail for other Hsm. Providers out there hopefully.
Usman Saleem: But it will definitely fail, for if the Nss. Is used, but then again, Nss. Is at the end of the day
Usman Saleem: is not used in production. That but that is what my understanding is, is it's it's good for testing.
Usman Saleem: That's about it.
Sally MacFarlane: right?
Usman Saleem: So as a result.
Usman Saleem: like as a result, now.
Usman Saleem: Basu supports Ec. Private keys when dealing with Pkcsl one key store as well previously. It wasn't like the Qvrt. Part wasn't able to utilize the Ec. Based keys
Usman Saleem: Now it does so
Usman Saleem: as part of solving the issue. We have a slightly, you know, enhanced functionality now.
Sally MacFarlane: So we we are, we are, we are! We are losing one thing I i'm hopeful that
Usman Saleem: the future releases of, and as I I i'm very surprised that there is no defect or bug filed up anywhere for this.
Usman Saleem: since this is a very pretty like, you know, like
Usman Saleem: very trivial implementation, or whenever you are dealing with Tls mutual authentication.
Usman Saleem: 99% of the time people use Rsa keys.
Usman Saleem: and this will pay like I even created a separate reproducer for it outside of this way as well, like a very simple state forward one.
Usman Saleem: And yeah, it fails with a very basic, simple scenario.
Usman Saleem: So yeah, I'm going to file up a bug report with with the open duty and see what they reported.
Usman Saleem: But yeah, the code changes in in the Jdk where it's happening. I've identified all of them.
Usman Saleem: for as far as the
Usman Saleem: the overall functionality goes. Yeah, our code basis. Now.
we'll go into compile on Jdk: 17.
Usman Saleem: Once. We merge this ticket in.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay. But back to your impact on users. We don't think anyone's using
Usman Saleem: that particular combination of things in production?
Usman Saleem: Yeah.
Usman Saleem: when dealing with the
Usman Saleem: Yeah, because yes, 11 backed by an Ns database, the Rsa keys will not work, it will fail.
Usman Saleem: So yeah, so th that that we are known issue the workaround is to use E. C. Keys or not use nss use of touches or some other Hsm. Which won't fail. But right now, because the change in Java 17
Usman Saleem: that will fail to work with Ms.
Usman Saleem: With Rsa keys. It will work with Ec. Keys, but it will fail with
Sally MacFarlane: got it
Usman Saleem: unless I missed something. And there is some way of
Usman Saleem: enabling the
Usman Saleem: that particular thing in Nss. But yeah, like, I read multiple tests
Usman Saleem: the whole last week. Majority of the last week was spent in fixing those test cases
Usman Saleem: also, as I created a very comprehensive Read me as well on how all those trust stores and key stores and certificates are created. That was not there before. So anyone any of the contributor
Usman Saleem: would have to go through the same thing that I got like. You know, there was no documentation whatsoever on how those unit test cases were created.
Usman Saleem: Now there will be a very deep like detailed instructions on even for end users as well
Usman Saleem: that if they want to test that particular feature of using Pkcs 11. This is how you do it like.
Sally MacFarlane: Excellent
Sally MacFarlane: that that's that's great easy.
Sally MacFarlane: There's been a few different contributors to sort of how to go. At this I was 17 and sort of chipped away at it, but it's great to finally see it.
Usman Saleem: Yeah, this particular I I thought that this particular failure was sorted out. But now this involved this was quite deep rabbit hole to fix, to feel it. But now it is, you know, takes. We work down. Essentially, we worked around that particular
Usman Saleem: issue that we were having, and because of that the Pr. Certainly grew quite a bit
Sally MacFarlane: yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: awesome. Just one other thing I wanted to mention here about the acceptance test, so they
Sally MacFarlane: been split into 2 separate tasks. So one is main net related exceptions test which is run on every Pr. And the second one is non-made net related, which is only run on the nightly. Build so that's things like privacy. Permission
Sally MacFarlane: click. Nbsp.
Sally MacFarlane: So so what that means is the
Sally MacFarlane: run on every Pr. Except his test task only takes about 5 min, which that's the bill time
Sally MacFarlane: it's a bit more pleasant.
Usman Saleem: Can I suggest a thing over here like? Can we update our
Usman Saleem: the pr checklist that we have
Usman Saleem: that if someone is modifying.
Usman Saleem: you know the stuff over here. They they should check a box that they have run next full acceptance. That's either in their end
Usman Saleem: or in the Pr. By modifying the circle. Ci.
Usman Saleem: Because otherwise I in my case the test case was failing, but my become green.
Usman Saleem: and I knew that that those tests will fail. So I that, like I modified
Usman Saleem: my Pr. So that my Pr. Runs the full acceptance test, like the both the main net and I don't know how feasible it is, but we should at least add a check box, which is that.
Usman Saleem: like, Have you run the acceptance test? If the full acceptance has both the main net and non-may net in your local area
Usman Saleem: in your local dive environment.
Usman Saleem: If it is touching the known main net code, somehow.
eventually, it will run the nightly basis, but by that time you might have introduced
Usman Saleem: it would be a difficult to track which change broke what, unless there is a check box which says that, yeah, I'm: I an acceptance test on my own.
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah, that's a good idea. Thanks for that suggestion.
Sally MacFarlane: Do you want to add that to the checklist.
Usman Saleem: Yeah, we should like
Awesome.
I think that's everything that was listed in the agenda.
Sally MacFarlane: Does anyone else have anything else to mention? Questions.
Sally MacFarlane: any other business, future topics, etc.
Sally MacFarlane: Otherwise it will be a quick one today.
Diego López León: Yeah, I I think Matt wanted to. Well, I I probably is not going to be in this meeting. But I want this us to discuss. Well, depending in section on your ways to I don't know, maybe organize code or something like that. But
Diego López León: maybe if you have some input on that for for the next meeting.
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah.
Sally MacFarlane: it's.
Sally MacFarlane: It is something that sort of a lot of people are thinking a lot about. I I don't know if anyone knows how like the answer to actually how to actually
Sally MacFarlane: make it happen yet.
Sally MacFarlane: But I get I, from my perspective, I think what we need to think about is what outcomes are we trying to achieve? But
Sally MacFarlane: you know, do we want a particular
Sally MacFarlane: artifact like out of the bill process for a particular used case? Or
Sally MacFarlane: do we want separation of concerns? Do we want a different release?
Sally MacFarlane: And I don't know the answers.
Diego López León: I've been trying to come up with a new main.
Diego López León: just for for, etc.
I've been trying to use dagger
Diego López León: so far. It's a good experience. I mean it's.
Diego López León: Personally, I I think it. I I like it. It's super simple, and a lean layer, so it's not us
Diego López León: big as a spring or any other, or juice
Diego López León: for for the dependency in section which I think it's. It's nice
Diego López León: to
Diego López León: Yeah, I don't know to have a a framework to provide us to this dependencies section. But no; that in
Diego López León: as much as a spring up to to as a dependency of, or even as of different practices.
Diego López León: So that that's what I've been doing. I I based on what I think was shitty.
Diego López León: He did on on the spring. He he didn't spike for for adding spring boot.
Diego López León: So I I I based my my work on that. Then I have to to stop doing it, because well, I had to to explore a bit about a a minor
Diego López León: that wanted to to connect with Basil, but so far it has been a like a place in the experience, and and that is not so bad.
So
Diego López León: yeah, that's my input on that.
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah, awesome.
Sally MacFarlane: I think as well. There is
Sally MacFarlane: the Us. Time Zone version of this call, I think, is tomorrow.
Sally MacFarlane: so and Matt will be on that call, and the and the Us. Folks from consensus. So
Diego López León: yeah, I don't know I have it on my schedule, it says reschedule.
Diego López León: But I don't know what that means.
Sally MacFarlane: I think it was rescheduled to
Sally MacFarlane: 10 am. Tomorrow Eastern time.
Diego López León: Okay.
I've got a link for the on calendar.
Oh, awesome.
Sally MacFarlane: That's the real game.
Sally MacFarlane: Okay?
Sally MacFarlane: Yeah, maybe i'll just share them. I can.
Sally MacFarlane: You can log in.
Sally MacFarlane: Let's put it in the zoom chat.
Diego López León: Yeah.
Diego López León: Thank you.
Diego López León: No great.
Sally MacFarlane: But yeah, I think the more sort of
Sally MacFarlane: experimentation and sort of spikes that people do at this point, you know. And gathering all that information, and how different sort of approaches work. I think that's all really about
Okay.
Sally MacFarlane: Awesome.
Anything else?
Sally MacFarlane: No.
Sally MacFarlane: okay.
Sally MacFarlane: thanks, everyone.
Gabriel Trintinalia: Thank you
Diego López León: Thank you. Bye, bye.
Diego López León: bye, bye.